Software requirement specification  (SRS) document template 
Project name: 
Date: 
Version: 
By: 
Revision history 
Version Author Verson description Date completed 
Review history 
Approving party Version approved Signature Date 


	

	

	

	

	

	



Approval history
Reviewer Version reviewed Signature Date 


	

	

	

	

	

	



Table of contents 
Introduction 
1 
 1.1 Product scope 
 1.2 Product value 
 1.3 Intended audience 
 1.4 Intended use 
 1.5 General description 
Functional requirements 
2 
External interface requirements 
3 
 3.1 User interface requirements 
 3.2 Hardware interface requirements  3.3 Software interface requirements  3.4 Communication interface requirements 
Non-functional requirements 
4 
 4.1 Security 
 4.2 Capacity 
 4.3 Compatibility 
 4.4 Reliability 
 4.5 Scalability 
 4.6 Maintainability 
 4.7 Usability 
 4.8 Other non-functional requirements 
Definitions and acronyms 
5
1 Introduction 
Describe the purpose of the document. 
1.1 Product scope List the benefits, objectives, and goals of the product. 1.2 Product value Describe how the audience will find value in the product. 1.3 Intended audience Write who the product is intended to serve. 1.4 Intended use Describe how will the intended audience use this product. 
1.5 General description
Give a summary of the functions the software would perform  and the features to be included.  
2 Functional requirements
List the design requirements, graphics requirements, operating system requirements,  and constraints of the product. 
External interface requirements 3
3.1 User interface  
 requirements 
3.2 Hardware interface   requirements 
3.3 Software interface   requirements 
3.4 Communication   interface requirements 
Describe the logic behind the interactions between  the users and the software (screen layouts, style guides, etc).  
List the supported devices the software is intended  to run on, the network requirements, and the communication  protocols to be used.  
Include the connections between your product and other  software components, including frontend/backend  framework, libraries, etc.  
List any requirements for the communication programs  your product will use, like emails or embedded forms.  
Non-functional requirements 4
4.1 Security 4.2 Capacity 
Include any privacy and data protection regulations  that should be adhered to.  
Describe the current and future storage needs  of your software.  
4.3 Compatibility List the minimum hardware requirements for your software.  
4.4 Reliability 
4.5 Scalability 4.6 Maintainability 4.7 Usability 
Calculate what the critical failure time of your product  would be under normal usage.  
Calculate the highest workloads under which your software  will still perform as expected.  
Describe how continuous integration should be used to  deploy features and bug fixes quickly.  
Describe how easy it should be for end-users to use your software.  
4.8 Other List any additional non-functional requirements. 
5 Definitions and acronyms